This video focuses on the performance of
SLAMTEC RPLidar A2 M12 in the application
of autonomous retrieving robot Leo Rover.
Our research focuses on a few questions
which are regarding to the range,
accuracy, angular resolution of the
lidar. As well as the relation with Leo Rover.
The working environment for the Leo Rover is a 4.7
m by 1.7 m flat space enclosed by whiteboards
with additional whiteboards as obstacles.
Therefore this study focuses on on the
performance of the liar within range
of 6 m and with the white surfaces.
The study hypothesized that RPLidar
performs reliably over a range of 0.2 m,
but the measurement accuracy decreases
with increasing distance due to signal
loss and beam divergence.
The fixed angular resolution
of .225 degrees limits its ability to
distinguish closely spaced objects.
All these may affect Leo Rover's ability
to navigate the complex environment.
First let's talk about the working
principle of SLAMTEC RPLidar A2 M12.
When working, the Lidar rotates at
10 revolutions per second and take
measurements every 0.225 degrees, which
is 1,600 measurements per revolution.
Finally an array of position data
could be visualized like this.
In the experiment we have used the
SLAMTEC RPLidar A2 M12, its USB
interface, ROS 2 compatible laptop, boxes as
constraints to the environment of the Lidar,
whiteboards as the obstacles and pre-marked
positions using tape measures, each 1 m apart.
This shows the methodology of the experiment.
First, minimum detecting distance of the
Lidar is tested by moving the obstacle
towards the Lidar while it is recording.
Then the whiteboard is moved
and held for 10 seconds at
1 m, 2 m, 3 m Etc. up to 6 m. However it is
noticed that the data for distance over 3 m
becomes extremely noisy. The potential reason
for this could be the Lidar detecting unwanted
obstacles due to insufficient constraints.
To resolve this, the orientation of the
boxes is changed. As a result the quantity
of noisy data has significantly decreased.
This graph illustrates the Lidar's
distance reading over time as an
obstacle is pushed towards the Lidar. The
readings constantly decrease until reaching
the minimum measurable distance of 0.145 m.
This box chart shows how Lidar absolute error
increases with distance. At 1 m errors
are minimum and consistent, but beyond
4 m the errors become larger and more variable,
highlighting reduced accuracy at longer ranges.
The experiment outputs the
angle_increment of the Lidar,
which is the angle between
measurements, to be 0.00348 radians.
This corresponds to 20.9 mm gap at 6 m range.
After visualizing the result we can update the
hypotheses we set previously.
The minimum range is 0.145 m,
the measurement accuracy is acceptable. The
0.2-degree angular resolution implies extra
care should be taken into object spacing
below 20 mm . However, overall the performance
of SLAMTEC RPLidar A2 M12 is sufficient
for the retrieving tasks for Leo Rover.